I wrote the p3helper.c code myself.

I believe everything works perfectly under all conditions.

How successful coordination was achieved:

Semaphores:
In the initStudentStuff function if a robot successfully created the semaphore it sets the initial value 0 in order to lock it.                      
All other (non-initializing) robots proceed to the else statement and then performs a sem_wait(). Since the value is 0, these robots are blocked until it is released by the initializing robot.
With the non-initialized robots blocked, the the initializing robot takes its time to create the common files. Afterwards, it performs a sem_post(). When this happens, the non-initializing robot then opens and read from the common files.
This avoids a race condition and ensures that the non-initializing robots will always wait for the files to be created first before reading from it. 

Upon entering the placeWidget function, a sem_wait() is placed in order to allow only one robot at a time to update the files and print. Since the robots have to first wait for the common files to be initialized, it is impossible to enter the 
critical region inside placeWidget before the common files have been created. Once the robot has finished printing, if it is not the terminating robot it then performs a sem_post to allow other robots waiting to enter the critical region to run. 
If it is the terminating robot, then it performs file cleanups by closing the file descriptors and unlinking the file names. This also occurs with the semaphore cleanup by using sem_close() and sem_unlink().


Triangular Printing Algorithm:
In order to achieve successful printing of a triangular pattern, I had to create  4 variables: count, rowprint, printcount, and maxpeakhit each with an initial value of 0, 1, 0, and 0 respectively. 

count - Each robot increments this value and keeps track of the current number of robots printed. This value is initialized to 0 but incremented when the first robot enters placeWidget
rowprint - Only the line terminating robot increments or decrement this value. This keeps track of the current row which also corresponds to the amount of robots to print for that row. The initial value is 1 since it is also the amount of robots to print. (e.g. the first row will print only one robot, the second row will print two robots, the third row will print three robots...)
printcount - Each robot increments this value but the line terminating robot resets this value to 0. This value keeps track of the number of robots printed on the current row. The value is initialized to 0 but incremented when a robot enters placeWidget.
maxpeakhit - This value is either 0 or 1. The initial value is 0 but when the count value is greater than the total amount of robots (nrRobots * quota) this value is set to 1. When set to 1, it tells
the line terminating robot to decrement the rowprint value. 

First the robot checks if it is the terminating robot. This is done by checking if the current amount of robots (count) equals to (nrRobots * quota). If it is then it performs a printeger, followed by a printf("F\n") and an fflush then the file and semaphore cleanup (strategy of cleanup is described above).

If it is not the terminating robot, then printcount is increased. This indicates how many robots are on the current row so far. The robot then checks if its count value (total amount printed) is greater than [(nrRobots * quota) / 2]. This determines if more than half of the total amount of robots have already been printed and if it is, then it sets the maxpeakhit flag. 

The robot then checks if it is the last value for that row by checking if printcount is equal to the rowprint (i.e. the amount of values printed on the row is equal to the row value. Ex: the 3rd robot on the 3rd row)
If it is, then it has to decide whether to increment or decrement the next row. This depends on the maxpeakhit value. If the maxpeakhit flag is set to 1, it will decrement rowprint, which shortens the length of each succeeding row 
in order to create a triangle form. The robot will then print out its process ID and then reset the value of printcount to 0. It then performs a printeger followed by a printf("N\n") and an fflush.

If the robot is not the final process or a line terminating process then it just simply prints its process ID and then an fflush.

To demonstrate an example: 
After entering the critical section, each robot effectively checks whether it is either the program terminating process, line terminating process, or neither. As an example, in the case of 15 total robots, the first robot would not be the line terminating robot since its count value (1) does not equal the total number of robots (15). The robot would then check if more than half of the robots have already printed. Since it has not then the maxpeakhit value remains zero. Since its printcount is 1 and rowprint 1, they are equal and it would be a line terminating robot. It then checks the maxpeakhit value and since it is zero, it increments the rowprint value and reset the printcount to zero. This robot then terminates by writing the current values into the common files and then releasing and exiting the semaphore. The second process will have a count value of 2, printcount of 1 and rowprint value of 2. Since the count value of (2) does not equal the total number of robots (15) it is not a line terminating process. It also checks if the maxpeakhitvalue should change and in this case it does not because more than half of the processes have not been printed yet. Since printcount (1) and rowprint (2) are not equal, it is not a line terminating process either. In this case, it just simply prints, fflush(), write its current values to the common files and releases the semaphore. When a robot has a count value greater than half of the total robots (8), it changes maxpeakhit to 1. Since it has a printcount value of (2) and rowprint of (4) each succeeding robot finishes printing until it is the line terminating robot. The line terminating robot sees that maxpeakhit changed to 1 and the next row will have one less than the current row. To shorten the example, with each succeeding robot, they enter the critical region read the common files (count, rowprint, printcount, maxpeakhit) and determine what type of robot it is (program terminating, line terminating, or neither). It performs the respective increments and update the values in the common files. Since the robots are 'queued' this effectively acts as a loop and runs until a robot has the count value which equals the total amount of robots. A robot does not know it is the final value until it compares its count value to the total. When this case is true, it simply closes and unlinks the  files and semaphores.

